---
layout: post
title: How to read historical opera scripts (4)
date: 2022-01-27
parent: News
---

Teochew is actually one of the earliest examples of a Chinese regional
vernacular language in written form, in these opera scripts. This means that
they have some unusual characters or words that are not understandable to those
who know only Mandarin or Literary Chinese.

This tradition of written Teochew was unfortunately never formalized or used in
formal education. These old play scripts, although so valuable to us today,
were regarded by literati of the past as low-class and not worth preserving. As
a result, all of the existing Teochew texts from the Ming era were either
rediscovered in libraries outside of China (in Europe and Japan) or recovered
from archaeological excavations. 

![]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link assets/images/historical_opera_script_4.png %})

(Photo: © Bodleian Libraries, University of Oxford, reused under CC-BY-NC 4.0 license)

This page shows some examples of written Teochew/Minnan expressions. Today’s
Teochew writers may use different characters to write the same words, sometimes
because more research has been done on the so-called “original characters”
(本字) of these words, but also because most people today are not familiar with
the old conventions. Teochew character writing is also not standardized,
although there are informal conventions that are more widely understood than
others.

 * 冥昏 mên-hng “evening” (more commonly written today as 暝昏、夜昏)
 * 值 di “which/where” (question particle, written today as 底、哋) 
 * 今旦 gim-dang “today” (not commonly used in modern Teochew)

Variant and vernacular simplified characters are also common. Some readers may
be surprised to see simplified characters in a centuries-old text, because
simplified characters were only introduced as a common standard in the 20th
century. Modern simplified characters however were often based on simplified
forms used in handwriting, calligraphy, and vernacular texts like these, so
some of them have a long history.

Another possible reason for why simplified characters were common is that they
require fewer strokes and are easier to carve into wood. Notice how the
simplified character 𭑧 is used instead of 娘 in the half-width text column,
where the smaller size would make it more difficult to carve the full-form
character.

Education of the literati put a lot of emphasis on correct character forms in
calligraphy, but these play scripts circulated among a lower social stratum and
were therefore not subject to the same cultural restrictions.

<hr />

If you are interested in discovering more historical Teochew opera texts to see
how much you can now understand, do check out our new companion website [Learn
Teochew with Teochew Opera](https://learn-teochew.github.io/tc-opera/), where
we link to useful resources on Teochew opera including digitized versions of
historical editions.
