---
layout: post
title: Visit to the Yeo Khee Lim Teochew Culture Research Centre
date: 2023-06-17
parent: News
---

A few days ago I paid a visit to the [Yeo Khee Lim Teochew Culture Research
Centre](https://yeokheelimtcrc.com), located in the premises of the [Nam Hwa
Opera](https://www.namhwaopera.com) at the Singapore Chinese Cultural Centre in
downtown Singapore.

The centre opened in 2019 with funding from two brothers, Mr Yeo Eng Koon and
Mr Yeo Eng Huat, and is named in honour of their late father, Mr Yeo Khee Lim.
It has a multimedia collection, including books on Teochew history and culture,
vinyl recordings of Teochew music and opera, posters, pamphlets, and much more,
donated by members of the community.

![Entrance to Yeo Khee Lim Teochew Culture Research Centre]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link assets/images/ykltcrc/ykltcrc_sign.jpg %})

The centre itself occupies a single room, with a great view of the Tanjong
Pagar port terminal to the South. On the day of my visit it was raining but
after the showers cleared I could see the port with the hills of Sentosa in the
background.

![Premises of Yeo Khee Lim TCRC; large table in the middle, bookshelves on the sides, and a large window at the end of the room.]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link assets/images/ykltcrc/ykltcrc_room.jpg %})

![View from the window, Tanjong Pagar port terminal with cranes and containers and forested hills in the background.]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link assets/images/ykltcrc/ykltcrc_rainy_window.jpg %})

Donâ€™t be fooled by the size: there are many treasures packed into this one
room. Some of the collection is [listed on their
website](https://yeokheelimtcrc.com/zhongxin-ziliao-ku/), but there is much
more that is not yet online. Anyone with interest in Teochew culture and
language can easily spend the whole day browsing the shelves.

One special focus is the collection of vinyl recordings of Teochew music and
opera. These are being digitized by the Centre and can be listened to on-site.
Many album sleeves, which usually have the lyrics to the songs in the
recordings, have been scanned and can be viewed on their website.

![Bookshelf with Teochew books and vinyl records]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link assets/images/ykltcrc/ykltcrc_bookshelf.jpg %})

![Thread-bound Teochew dictionary on table, one volume opened]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link assets/images/ykltcrc/ykltcrc_dictionary.jpg %})

I visited the Centre to look for commemorative booklets of Teochew opera movie
productions from the 1950s and 1960s, to do more research for my [Learn Teochew
Opera website](https://learn-teochew.github.io/tc-opera/transcriptions/). These
movies were produced in Hong Kong and exported to Teochew communities around
the world. Commemorative booklets contained pictures and writeups of the
actors, as well as transcripts of the lyrics and dialogue, and were widely
published and sold to fans. However because they were commercial material, they
were rarely collected by libraries and are not easy to find today.

When I arrived at the Centre, I asked ther intern, Meixin, to help me look for
such booklets. Some time later, the President of Nam Hwa Opera, Mr Toh Lim Mok,
dropped in to say hello. When I mentioned what I was looking for, he opened a
cabinet and started taking out stacks of these booklets: I nearly fell out of
my chair! The picture below shows just a small part of what they have.

![Commemorative booklets with scripts of movie productions of Teochew operas, colorful covers, some with pictures of the opera stars]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link assets/images/ykltcrc/ykltcrc_opera_scripts.jpg %})

This was a very pleasant and productive visit: I not only found what I was
looking for, but had to stop myself from being sidetracked by all the other
material there.

Many thanks to Mr Toh for the kind welcome, Meixin for her help, and Ms Janet
Chong for making the arrangements for me to visit!

For researchers: [Contact the Centre by
email](https://yeokheelimtcrc.com/lianluo-women/) to make an appointment. The
premises are usually not open to the public, so you should contact them in
advance. The Centre is located in the Nam Hwa Opera offices on the 11th floor
of the Singapore Chinese Cultural Centre, 1 Straits Boulevard, Singapore.
Closest MRT stations are: Shenton Way, Downtown, or Marina Bay.
